Add sensor user journey (#2986)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/use-cases/sensor-data-query-sdk.md

---
title: "Query sensor data with Python SDK"
linkTitle: "Query sensor data with SDK"
weight: 31
type: "docs"
images: ["/services/icons/data-query.svg"]
description: "Query sensor data that you have synced to the Viam app using the data management service with SQL or MQL."
modulescript: true
# SME: Devin Hilly
---

You can use the data management service to capture sensor or time-series data from any machine and sync that data to the cloud.
Then, you can query it using {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="sql" text="SQL" >}} or {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="mql" text="MQL" >}} to obtain actionable insights or connect it to third-party visualization tools.

For example, you can configure data capture for several sensors on one machine, or for serveral sensors across multiple machines, to report the ambient operating temperature.
You can then run queries against that data to search for outliers or edge cases, to analyze how the ambient temperature affects your machines' operation.

{{< alert title="In this page" color="tip" >}}

> 1. Gathering data on any machine and syncing it to the cloud.

Author: ```suggestion
1. [Gathering data on any machine and syncing it to the cloud](#gather-and-sync-data).
```

> 1. Querying data with the Python SDK.

Author: ```suggestion
1. [Querying data with the Python SDK](#search-data-with-the-python-sdk).
```

from viam.proto.app.data import Filter

async def connect() -> ViamClient:
    dial_options = DialOptions(
      credentials=Credentials(
        type="api-key",
        # Replace "<API-KEY>" (including brackets) with your machine's API key
        payload='<API-KEY>',
      ),
      # Replace "<API-KEY-ID>" (including brackets) with your machine's
      # API key ID
      auth_entity='<API-KEY-ID>'
    )
    return await ViamClient.create_from_dial_options(dial_options)

async def main():
    # Make a ViamClient
    viam_client = await connect()
    # Instantiate a DataClient to run data client API methods on
    data_client = viam_client.data_client

    my_filter = Filter(component_name="my-sensor")
    tabular_data, count, id = await data_client.tabular_data_by_filter(
        filter=my_filter, limit=5)

    viam_client.close()

if __name__ == '__main__':
    asyncio.run(main())
```

You can also use:

- [`TabularDataBySQL()`](/appendix/apis/data-client/#tabulardatabysql)
- [`TabularDataByMQL()`](/appendix/apis/data-client/#tabulardatabymql)
- [`DeleteTabularData()`](/appendix/apis/data-client/#deletetabulardata)

{{< /tablestep >}}
{{< /table >}}

> ## Next steps
> 
> To see sensor data in action, check out these tutorials:
> 
> {{< cards >}}
> {{% card link="/use-cases/sensor-data-visualize/" %}}
> {{% card link="/tutorials/control/air-quality-fleet/" %}}
> {{< /cards >}}

Author: ```suggestion
## Next steps

On top of querying sensor data with third-party tools, you can also [visualize it](/use-cases/sensor-data-visualize/).

{{< cards >}}
{{% card link="/use-cases/sensor-data-visualize/" %}}
{{< /cards >}}

To see sensor data in action, check out these tutorials:

{{< cards >}}
{{% card link="/tutorials/control/air-quality-fleet/" %}}
{{< /cards >}}
```

---
title: "Query sensor data with Python SDK"
linkTitle: "Query sensor data with SDK"
weight: 31
type: "docs"
images: ["/services/icons/data-query.svg"]
description: "Query sensor data that you have synced to the Viam app using the data management service with SQL or MQL."
modulescript: true
# SME: Devin Hilly
---

You can use the data management service to capture sensor or time-series data from any machine and sync that data to the cloud.
Then, you can query it using {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="sql" text="SQL" >}} or {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="mql" text="MQL" >}} to obtain actionable insights or connect it to third-party visualization tools.

For example, you can configure data capture for several sensors on one machine, or for serveral sensors across multiple machines, to report the ambient operating temperature.
You can then run queries against that data to search for outliers or edge cases, to analyze how the ambient temperature affects your machines' operation.

{{< alert title="In this page" color="tip" >}}

> 
> This guide will walk you through:

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "Query sensor data with Python SDK"
linkTitle: "Query sensor data with SDK"
weight: 31
type: "docs"
images: ["/services/icons/data-query.svg"]
description: "Query sensor data that you have synced to the Viam app using the data management service with SQL or MQL."
modulescript: true
# SME: Devin Hilly
---

> You can use the data management service to capture sensor or time-series data from any machine and sync that data to the cloud.
> Then, you can query it using {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="sql" text="SQL" >}} or {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="mql" text="MQL" >}} to obtain actionable insights or connect it to third-party visualization tools.
> 
> For example, you can configure data capture for several sensors on one machine, or for serveral sensors across multiple machines, to report the ambient operating temperature.
> You can then run queries against that data to search for outliers or edge cases, to analyze how the ambient temperature affects your machines' operation.

Reviewer: Same comment as on the other ones--feels odd to duplicate so much.
```suggestion
You can use the data management service to [capture sensor data](/use-cases/collect-sensor-data/) from any machine and sync that data to the cloud.
Then, you can use the Viam Python SDK to query it using {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="sql" text="SQL" >}} or {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="mql" text="MQL" >}}, and write a script to look for insights or take action based on the data.

For example, you can configure data capture for several sensors on one machine, or for several sensors across multiple machines, to report the ambient operating temperature.
You can then write a script to run queries against that data to search for outliers or edge cases, to analyze how the ambient temperature affects your machines' operation or to take action if the machines are overheating.
```

viam organizations api-key create --org-id <org-id> --name my-api-key
```

{{< /tablestep >}}
{{< tablestep link="/appendix/apis/data-client/">}}
**3. Use the API key with the `data_client`**

Use the API key and the [`TabularDataByFilter()`](/appendix/apis/data-client/#tabulardatabyfilter) method to query data:

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers" data-line="28-30"}
import asyncio

from viam.rpc.dial import DialOptions, Credentials
from viam.app.viam_client import ViamClient
from viam.proto.app.data import Filter

async def connect() -> ViamClient:
    dial_options = DialOptions(
      credentials=Credentials(
        type="api-key",
        # Replace "<API-KEY>" (including brackets) with your machine's API key
        payload='<API-KEY>',
      ),
      # Replace "<API-KEY-ID>" (including brackets) with your machine's
      # API key ID
      auth_entity='<API-KEY-ID>'
    )
    return await ViamClient.create_from_dial_options(dial_options)

async def main():
    # Make a ViamClient
    viam_client = await connect()
    # Instantiate a DataClient to run data client API methods on
    data_client = viam_client.data_client

>     my_filter = Filter(component_name="my-sensor")

Reviewer: Perhaps this is out of scope but it'd be nice to show doing something very simple with the data.

    tabular_data, count, id = await data_client.tabular_data_by_filter(
        filter=my_filter, limit=5)

    viam_client.close()

if __name__ == '__main__':
    asyncio.run(main())
```

You can also use:

- [`TabularDataBySQL()`](/appendix/apis/data-client/#tabulardatabysql)
- [`TabularDataByMQL()`](/appendix/apis/data-client/#tabulardatabymql)
- [`DeleteTabularData()`](/appendix/apis/data-client/#deletetabulardata)

{{< /tablestep >}}
{{< /table >}}

## Next steps

On top of querying sensor data with the Python SDK, you can also [query](/use-cases/sensor-data-query/) or [visualize](/use-cases/sensor-data-visualize/) it with third-party tools.

{{< cards >}}
{{% card link="/use-cases/sensor-data-query/" %}}
{{% card link="/use-cases/sensor-data-visualize/" %}}
{{< /cards >}}

> To see sensor data in action, check out these tutorials:

Author: ```suggestion
To see sensor data in action, check out this tutorial:
```

---
title: "Query sensor data with the Python SDK"
linkTitle: "Query sensor data with SDK"
weight: 31
type: "docs"
images: ["/services/icons/data-query.svg"]

> description: "Query sensor data that you have synced to the Viam app using the data management service with SQL or MQL."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Retrieve and query sensor data that you have synced to the Viam app using Python SDK."
```

{{< alert title="In this page" color="tip" >}}

1. [Setting up the Python SDK](#set-up-the-python-sdk).
1. [Querying data with the Python SDK](#search-data-with-the-python-sdk).

{{< /alert >}}

## Prerequisites

{{% expand "A running machine connected to the Viam app. Click to see instructions." %}}

{{% snippet "setup.md" %}}

{{% /expand%}}

{{% expand "Captured sensor data. Click to see instructions." %}}

Follow the guide to [capture sensor data](/use-cases/collect-sensor-data/).

{{% /expand%}}

{{% expand "The Viam CLI to set up data query. Click to see instructions." %}}

{{< readfile "/static/include/how-to/install-cli.md" >}}

{{% /expand%}}

## Set up the Python SDK

{{< table >}}
{{< tablestep link="/build/program/#requirements">}}
**1. Install the Python SDK**

For macOS (both Intel x86_64 and Apple Silicon) or Linux (x86, aarch64, armv6l), run the following commands:

```sh {class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install viam-sdk
```

{{< /tablestep >}}
{{< /table >}}

> ## Search data with the Python SDK

Author: ```suggestion
## Query data with the Python SDK
```

weight: 31
type: "docs"
images: ["/services/icons/data-query.svg"]
description: "Query sensor data that you have synced to the Viam app using the data management service with SQL or MQL."
modulescript: true
# SME: Devin Hilly
---

You can use the data management service to [capture sensor data](/use-cases/collect-sensor-data/) from any machine and sync that data to the cloud.
Then, you can use the Python SDK to retrieve and query that data.
For example, you can configure data capture for several sensors on one machine, or for several sensors across multiple machines, to report the ambient operating temperature.
You can then write a script to run queries against that data to search for outliers or edge cases, to analyze how the ambient temperature affects your machines' operation or to take action if the machines are overheating.

{{< alert title="In this page" color="tip" >}}

1. [Setting up the Python SDK](#set-up-the-python-sdk).
1. [Querying data with the Python SDK](#search-data-with-the-python-sdk).

{{< /alert >}}

## Prerequisites

{{% expand "A running machine connected to the Viam app. Click to see instructions." %}}

{{% snippet "setup.md" %}}

{{% /expand%}}

> 

Author: No, you only need the location id of the location the machine was in. The API key generated is not tied to a machien
